kubernetesio x guidelines (#8066)
kubernetes/community: communication/kubernetesio-x-guidelines.md

> # @kubernetesio X Account guidelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# @kubernetesio X Account Guidelines
```

SIG ContribEx Comms has multiple communication channels, not limited to the kubernetesio account. The main difference is the targeted audience.

### Kubernetes Contributors can be targeted by the following channels:

* [dev@kubernetes.io](mailto:dev@kubernetes.io) mailing list
* Kubernetes Slack Announcement Bot
* Mastadon: [k8sContributors@hachiderm](https://hachyderm.io/@K8sContributors)
* X: [k8sContributors](https://x.com/k8sContributors)

### End User focused Channels are

* X: [kubernetesio](https://x.com/kubernetesio)
* [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/kubernetes/posts/)

### Mixed Channels:

* [Lwkd Newsletter](https://lwkd.info/)

## The following policy will describe the usage policy of the kubernetesio X account.

> * The kubernetesio account is reaching hundreds of thousands people. As such, we need to make sure we link to things that are owned by the community itself (mailing lists, GitHub, surveys, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The kubernetesio account is reaching hundreds of thousands of people. As such, we need to make sure we link to things that are owned by the community itself (mailing lists, GitHub, surveys, etc.).
```

>     * As a rule, we should not link to individuals' Twitter accounts or other personal properties given the massive amount of attention it could create

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * As a general rule, we should avoid linking to individual Twitter accounts or other personal properties given the massive amount of attention it may generate.
```

>     * Retweets of long time contributors and people that can generally sustain the attention they will receive from the tweet is encouraged - this is to be decided by the [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles) in a case by case decision

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * However, retweeting long-time contributors or individuals who can manage the attention their posts attract is encouraged. This decision will be made on a case-by-case basis by the [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles).
```

>         * In general the person should be a well known technologist or significant contributor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * In general the person should be a well known technologist or significant contributor.
```

>         * If posting about or linking to Mastodon make sure you have the correct account as there are often many hits on a single user on other instances

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * When posting about or linking to Mastodon, make sure you are referencing the correct account, as users may appear across multiple instances.
```

    * If you have questions, please reach out to the [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles) or [social media team](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/role-handbooks/Social-Media.md) (leads and/or shadows)

> * The preferred way for managing tweets is handled via Buffer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The preferred way for managing tweets is via Buffer.
```

    * Active members recognized in the [SIG ContribEx Comms readme](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md) can propose tweets via Buffer
    * [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles) and SIG ContribEx Comms Social Media Leads can approve tweets

>     * [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles) and SIGContribEx Comms Social Media Leads must not approve their own proposed tweets - this can be overruled by emergency posts to be defined in sensitive communication

Reviewer: Reframing to make it clearer - as I did not understand it the first time until I remembered about the sensitive comms guidelines from our meetings.
```suggestion
    * [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles) and SIGContribEx Comms Social Media Leads must not approve their own proposed tweets - except in emergencies, which will be defined under sensitive communication guidelines.

> * Request for communication (social media, surveys, etc.) can be made via a GitHub Issue in the Community Repository or via a communication request in #sig-contribex-comms. The GitHub issue request is the preferred method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Requests for communication (social media, surveys, etc.) can be made via a GitHub Issue in the Community Repository or via a communication request in #sig-contribex-comms. The GitHub issue request is the preferred method.
```

>     * It is not possible to request communication via kubernetesio X account directly. We recommend that requesters define a targeted recipient group, rather than a target channel or account. The current recipient groups are:  \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Direct communication requests to the kubernetesio X account are not accepted. Requesters should specify a targeted recipient group rather than a specific channel or account. The current recipient groups are:  \
```

>       Kubernetes Contributors \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Kubernetes Contributors \
```

>       Kubernetes End User

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Kubernetes End User \
```

>       Kubernetes End User

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Kubernetes End Users \
```

>       Both of the above

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Both of the above
```

> * The ultimate decision regarding which channels fit the request best lies with SIG ContribEx Comms

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The final decision on which channels best suit a request lies with SIG ContribEx Comms.
```

> * For time sensitive requests, please raise the attention additionally to the [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For time-sensitive requests, please escalate the issue to the [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles).
```

> * Moderation of the Kubernetesio account resides with [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles) and [SIG ContribEx-Comms Social Media Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Moderation of the Kubernetesio account resides with [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles) and [SIG ContribEx-Comms Social Media Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles).
```

>     * The kubernetesio account will not interact with any comments or reply to any accounts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * The kubernetesio account will not interact with any comments or reply to any accounts.
```

> * X TOS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* X Terms of Service (TOS):
```

>     * It is the responsibility of the [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles)  & [SIG ContribEx-Comms Social Media Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles) to be familiar with the [terms of service (TOS) of X](https://x.com/en/tos), and to ensure the kubernetesio account maintains compliance with the X TOS. This includes understanding and adhering to rules around things like account age (birthday), language usage, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * It is the responsibility of the [SIG ContribEx Comms Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles) & [SIG ContribEx-Comms Social Media Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/contributor-comms/README.md#roles) to be familiar with the [terms of service (TOS) of X](https://x.com/en/tos), and to ensure the kubernetesio account maintains compliance with the X TOS. This includes understanding and adhering to rules around things like account age (birthday), language usage, and other relevant guidelines.
```
